We discussed how Dyna
unifies planning,
learning, and acting.
This unification introduce
some additional concepts
like model learning
and search control.
Today we'll take a closer look at
how all these pieces
fit together.
In this video, we will discuss
a specific instance of
the Dyna architecture
called tabular Dyna-Q.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to describe
how Tabular Dinah-Q works.
You will also be able to
identify the direct-RL,
planning, model learning,
and search control
parts of Dyna-Q.
Let's first discuss how
Tabular Dyna-Q algorithm
learns a model.
Tabular Dyna -Q assumes
deterministic transitions.
For example, when this rabbit
chooses to move right in state A,
there's only one outcome.
The rabbit transitions to
state B with a reward of zero.
Likewise, if the rabbit
moves right in state B,
it stays in state B
with a reward of one.
The left action in B always takes
the rabbit to state A
with a reward of zero.
After the rabbit has
experienced these transitions,
the model knows what happens
in these state action pairs.
If a transition occurred once,
it will always unfold
that way in the future.
The model can be
certain about this.
Let's look at the Dyna-Q
algorithm in detail.
First, we have
the usual agent environment
interaction loop.
In the current state,
the agent selects an action
according to its
epsilon greedy policy.
It then observes the resulting
reward in next state.
It performs a Q-learning update
with this transition,
what we call direct-RL.
If we were to stop here,
we would get exactly the
Q-learning algorithm.
This is where things start to
differ from model-free methods.
Dyna-Q will take
this transition and
perform a model
learning step with it.
To do so, the algorithm memorizes
the next state and reward
for the given state action pair.
This works because we assume
the environment is deterministic.
Dyna-Q then performs
several steps of planning.
Each planning step
consists of three steps;
search control, model query,
and value update.
In this algorithm,
search controls selects
a previously visited state
action pair at random.
It must be a state action pair
the agent has seen before.
Otherwise, the model would
not know what happens next.
Given the state action pair,
we create the model for
the next state and reward.
We have now generated
a model transition.
Finally, Dyna-Q performs
a Q-learning update
with the simulated transition.
The planning step is
repeated many times.
The most important thing
to remember is that Dyna-Q
performs many planning updates
for each environment transition.
That's tabular Dyna-Q, a
simple instance of
the Dyna architecture.
Let's revisit our robot friend
to better understand
the Dyna-Q algorithm.
Remember, this is just
a cartoon to build intuition.
Like before, it starts out
knowing nothing about
the environment.
The robot gradually builds
a model while interacting
with the environment.
The first episode
takes a 184 steps.
In that time,
the agent only change
the value of the state
action pair beside the goal.
Without planning,
the next few episodes would
probably be just as long.
Let's look at the next episode
and study the impact of
doing 100 steps of planning
on every time step.
The last time we talked
about this robot,
it was doing way more
planning on each step.
So this time around,
it will take longer for
Dyna-Q to find a good policy.
After just one step,
planning updated the values
of two more states.
Now, the agent knows
the correct actions
in the final corridor.
Let's run Dyna-Q a bit longer.
The impact of planning
is quite dramatic.
Dyna-Q propagates
the reward information
across the entire state space.
Eventually, the agent knows
an effective policy
for navigating
to the goal from most states.
The policy computed
by planning only
requires 18 steps
to reach the goal.
After just two episodes,
that's more than ten times
shorter than the first episode.
Tabular Dyna-Q performed
many more updates to
the value function than it
would have without planning.
Dyna-Q makes better use
of its limited interaction
with the environment.
In this video, we learned how
Tabular Dyna-Q mixes planning,
learning, and acting
through the value function.
We also studied how Dyna-Q
updates it's value function
in a small Gridworld.